Clean up logging guidance (#29257)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/logging-tracing.md

- Structured: Log entries have a well defined schema and can be encoded in different binary and textual formats. These logs are designed to be machine translatable and queryable so that both humans and automated systems can work with them easily.

APIs that support structured logging are preferable for non-trivial usage. They can offer more functionality, flexibility, and performance with little difference in usability.

### Configuration

For very simple use-cases you might want to use APIs that directly write messages to the console or a file, but most software projects will find it useful to configure which log events get recorded and how they are persisted. For example, when running in a local dev environment you might want to output plain text to the console for easy readability. Then when the application is deployed to a production environment you might switch to have the logs stored in a dedicated database or a set of rolling files. APIs with good configuration options will make these transitions easy whereas less configurable options would require updating the instrumentation code everywhere to make changes.

### Sinks

> Most logging APIs allow log messages to be sent to different destinations called sinks. Some APIs have a large number of pre-made sinks whereas others only have a few. If no pre-made sink exists there is usually an extensibility API that will let you author a custom sink but this will take a little extra effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most logging APIs allow log messages to be sent to different destinations called sinks. Some APIs have a large number of pre-made sinks whereas others only have a few. If no pre-made sink exists there is usually an extensibility API that will let you author a custom sink, although this requires writing a bit more code.
```

## .NET logging APIs

### ILogger

> For most cases, whether adding logging to an existing project or creating a new project, [ILogger](../extensions/logging.md) is a good default choice for logging API. ILogger supports fast structured logging, flexible configuration, and a collection of [common sinks](../extensions/logging-providers.md#built-in-logging-providers). ILogger can also serve as a facade over many [third party logging implementations](../extensions/logging-providers.md#third-party-logging-providers) that offer much more functionality and extensibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most cases, whether adding logging to an existing project or creating a new project, the [ILogger](../extensions/logging.md) is a good default choice. `ILogger` supports fast structured logging, flexible configuration, and a collection of [common sinks](../extensions/logging-providers.md#built-in-logging-providers). Additionally. the `ILogger` can also serve as a facade over many [third party logging implementations](../extensions/logging-providers.md#third-party-logging-providers) that offer more functionality and extensibility.
```

Author: I assume that period after "Additionally" was intended to be a comma?

Author: "The ILogger" sounds odd to me - did you mean to write "The ILogger API"?
If we were referring to an instance of ILogger I'd probably say "an ILogger", but when refering to the API as a whole I would say "ILogger" with no article. For example "ILogger is a great API", or "You should use ILogger"

Reviewer: I was treating it as the interface, for example, the `ILogger` interface. Maybe that specificity would help? I fixed the suggestion, thoughts?

Author: I think "the ILogger interface" sounds fine. There is still "the ILogger is a good default choice" in the updated suggestion. Was that also intended to have 'interface' added?

### EventSource

> [EventSource](./eventsource.md) is an older high performance structured logging API. It was originally designed to integrate well with [Event Tracing for Windows (ETW)](/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal), but was later extended to support [EventPipe](./eventpipe.md) cross-platform tracing and <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventListener> for custom sinks. In comparison to ILogger, EventSource has relatively few pre-made logging sinks and there is no built-in support to configure via separate configuration files. EventSource is excellent if you want tighter control over [ETW](/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal) or [EventPipe](./eventpipe.md) integration, but for general purpose logging most projects will likely find ILogger more flexible and easier to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[EventSource](./eventsource.md) is an older high performance structured logging API. It was originally designed to integrate well with [Event Tracing for Windows (ETW)](/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal), but was later extended to support [EventPipe](./eventpipe.md) cross-platform tracing and <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventListener> for custom sinks. In comparison to `ILogger`, `EventSource` has relatively few pre-made logging sinks and there is no built-in support to configure via separate configuration files. `EventSource` is excellent if you want tighter control over [ETW](/windows/win32/etw/event-tracing-portal) or [EventPipe](./eventpipe.md) integration, but for general purpose logging most projects will likely find `ILogger` more flexible and easier to use.
```

### Trace

> <xref:System.Diagnostics.Trace?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Diagnostics.Debug?displayProperty=nameWithType> are .NET's oldest logging APIs. These have flexible configuration APIs and a large ecosystem of sinks, but only support unstructured logging. On .NET Framework they can be configured via an app.config file but in .NET Core there is no built-in file-based configuration mechanism. The .NET team continues to support these APIs for back-compat purposes but there is no plan to add new functionality. These are a fine choice for applications that are already using them. For newer apps that haven't already commited to a logging API, ILogger may offer better functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<xref:System.Diagnostics.Trace?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Diagnostics.Debug?displayProperty=nameWithType> are .NET's oldest logging APIs. These have flexible configuration APIs and a large ecosystem of sinks, but only support unstructured logging. On .NET Framework they can be configured via an app.config file but in .NET Core there is no built-in file-based configuration mechanism. The .NET team continues to support these APIs for backward-compatability purposes but there is no plan to add new functionality. These are a fine choice for applications that are already using them. For newer apps that haven't already committed to a logging API, `ILogger` may offer better functionality.
```

## Specialized logging APIs

### Console

The <xref:System.Console?displayProperty=nameWithType> class has the <xref:System.Console.Write%2A> and <xref:System.Console.WriteLine%2A> methods that can be used in simple logging scenarios. These APIs are very easy to get started with but the solution won't be as flexible as a general purpose logging API. Console only allows unstructured logging and there is no configuration support to select which log messages are enabled or to retarget to a different sink. Using the ILogger or Trace APIs with a console sink doesn't take much additional effort and keeps the logging configurable.

### DiagnosticSource

> <xref:System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource?displayProperty=nameWithType> is intended for logging where the log messages will be analyzed synchronously in-process rather than serialized to any storage. This allows the source and listener to exchange arbitrary .NET objects as messages whereas most logging APIs require the log event to be serializable. This technique can also be extremely fast, handling log events in 10s of nanoseconds if the listener is implemented efficiently. Tools that use these APIs often act more like in-process profilers though the API doesn't impose any constraint here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<xref:System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource?displayProperty=nameWithType> is intended for logging where the log messages will be analyzed synchronously in-process rather than serialized to any storage. This allows the source and listener to exchange arbitrary .NET objects as messages, whereas most logging APIs require the log event to be serializable. This technique can also be extremely fast, handling log events in tens of nanoseconds if the listener is implemented efficiently. Tools that use these APIs often act more like in-process profilers, though the API doesn't impose any constraint here.
```
